Dene Farrell

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  github | linkedIn | resume

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Professional Summary
I lead organizations forward into modern technology solutions by
directly addressing the hard tradeoffs in the complex spaces of cloud
computing, distributed systems, data platforms, and enterprise
technology strategies. I am especially effective at distinguishing which
products and vendors are critical to the success of an organization. I
bring with me two decades of technical experience and ten years of
leadership roles. I have lead teams and products of varying sizes from
small to large. I have developed enterprise data and technology
strategies for organizations greater than 200 people.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Experience

Defense Digital Service - Digital Service Expert
Washington DC, November 2020 - Present

-   Lead a team of developers to transition from monolithic applications
    to distributed computing. In collaboration with the team, we
    successfully reeingineered a system design from an overloaded web
    application into decoupled microservices that leverage severless
    architecture solutions.

-   Designed, developed and deployed a real-time streaming analytics
    platform for ingestion of and machine learning on IoT data.

-   Established a cloud-based data brokering service allowing for
    integration of external data producers and data consumers across the
    DoD.

-   Supported the the Afgan Noncombatant Evacuation Operation rapid
    response support in partnership between DDS and the State
    Department. Contributed to larger team efforts by rapidly deploying
    underlying cloud infrastructure for future application development
    and deployment.

Latch - Senior Manager, Data Engineering
New York, Sept 2019 – Nov 2020

-   Managed a team of five including three data engineers, a data
    scientist, and a business analyst

-   Delivered several cross-company services: Data Centralization and
    Governance, Data Ecosystem Management with Automated Analytics,
    Company Operational Notifications, CRM to ERP Integration, PII
    Anonymization, ML Pipeline Development and Deployment Framework.

-   Coordinated central data platform initiatives with diverse
    stakeholders while constantly adapting to meet the day-to-day data
    needs at Latch.

Capital One - Principal Data Engineer
New York, May 2017 – Sept 2019

-   Lead Card-on-file Detections: Successfully deployed a classification
    pipeline that identifies for all credit card holders which merchants
    have stored their credentials on file. Lead a team of four to five
    software engineers and data scientists of the course of this work.

-   Developed a general purpose data visualization tool for handling
    highly inter-related categorical variables at high volumes, high
    state variability, low documentation and low stability. Leveraged
    Spark and D3. Implemented on credit card transaction data.

-   Re-architected a monolith ML application to microservices using AWS
    serverless services.

-   Implemented a comprehensive customer profile feature engineering
    pipeline to service a multi-armed bandit call schedule
    recommendation service with Python, Snowflake, and Kubernetes.

Insight Fellows Program - Data Engineering Fellow
New York, Jan. 2017 – Mar. 2017

-   Deployed Fleetingly, a taxi fleet analysis application for scalable
    sensing of geospatial patterns

-   Implemented fleet performance analysis with live streaming and
    historical pattern visualizations.

-   Tech stack: Kafka, Spark Streaming, ElasticSearch, Kibana. [Python +
    Scala]

Sloan Kettering Institute - Software Engineer
New York, Dec. 2008 – Jan. 2017

-   Built image processing applications for understanding early
    Drosophila embryo development.

-   Made advanced computational tools accessible to non-technical users
    with intuitive interfaces.

-   Enhanced image processing capabilities in order to analyze
    previously unobtainable 4D data.

-   Co-authored several publication in premiere journals such as Nature.

-   Built applications with Matlab, Python, and Java

Education

2008
    M.S., Systems Science; State University of New York, Binghamton

2006
    B.S., Bioengineering; State University of New York, Binghamton

Side Projects

Gifthorse Inc - Founder and Developer
New York, June 2018 – Present

-   Developed a fun and easy to use gift recommender service

-   Django Web Backend, React Frontend, Scala Data Engineering and ML
    Backend

-   Services implemented: product parsing and updating, basic frontend
    functionality, basic recommendation functionalities, authentication,
    CICD Deployments

Skills

Programming Languages

    Python: 10 Years experience.

    Scala, Java: 3 years experience developing in Scala and Java.
    Completed Courses from EPFL in Functional Programming and Software
    Development with Scala.

    JavaScript, Typescript, React: 2 years experience. I use JavaScript
    and React in my side project, Gifthorse and leveraged typescript
    most recently at DDS to contribute to web app products.

    SQL: I have built several products that leverage RDS (Postgres),
    Snowflake, Spark SQL and Teradata. Additionally I have build and
    integrate with NOSQL systems such as MongoDB, Elasticsearch, and
    DynamoDB.

    Shell (Bash): e.g. dots

    Basic knowledge:
    C++, D3, Mathematica, Matlab, Perl

Data Engineering

    AWS, Sagemaker, Kafka, Spark, EMR, DynamoDB, AWS Lambda, Flask,
    Django, ElasticSearch, Airflow, Luigi, Ansible, Jenkins, CircleCI,
    Snowflake, Docker, Kubernetes, System Architecture and System
    Design, Looker, Terraform

Machine Learning

    Classification, Regression, Data Wrangling, Feature Engineering,
    Entity Resolution, Artificial Neural Networks, Unsupervised Learning
    Algorithms, K-Means Clustering, PCA, Data Visualization

Team Management

    Roadmap Planning, Jira, Agile, Scrum, Kanban, Stakeholder
    Communication, Software Team Productivity Enhancements, Architecture
    Decision Records, Software and Data System Documentation Strategies

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  dene.farrell@gmail.com • 914.602.3847 • New York

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  pdf • txt • doc • web • generator • one-page • cv+publications
